---
title: From Rock Bottom
author:
  name: Hieu Huynh
  link: https://github.com/hhuynh15
date: 2022-03-13 20:10:00 -0700
categories: [Blogging]
tags: [Personal]
image: 
  src: #/YCF4dh6.png
  width: 700
  height: 393
---

Six years ago my life was spiraling out of control, I had developed a crippling video game addiction and was failing almost all my classes. I could not stop myself even as I watched my grades slip away. It didn't help that my primary form of escapism was also video games and it was how I coped with my failing grades and deteriorating relationships. All my energy had focused on games and I didn't know how to stop so I looked for help from professionals. That's when I was diagnosed with ADHD. I was put on stimulants to help me control my impulses and focus in school but it only made matters worse. I do not blame the doctors for this, I blame myself for lying to the doctors and telling them that it made everything better when it was making things worse. Now, instead of playing games for 8-12 hours a day I was playing for 24-48 hours at a time. I had lost so much weight and I stopped attending classes completely. I spoke with my family less and less and they had no idea how bad things had gotten for me. That was until out of pure desperation I finally told my sister I could not stop taking the stimulants and she had to flush them down the toilet for me. I wish I could say that things started to get better for me here but they didn't. 

I started a new semester of school and picked up a part time job to try and get things back on track but my mental state was nowhere near stable enough to jump right back into school and work. I had rushed things too quickly and ended up turning to alcohol to deal with my mental anguish. Once again my grades slipped and I had no control over my addiction. Pile on the fact that I was going to school and working near full time. I was giving myself no time to process things or sort myself out. My emotions had bubbled up to the point where I had a mental breakdown and it led to me getting institutionalized in a mental ward. At this point I can safely say that this was the lowest point of my life and it felt like there was nothing left for me to salvage.

The only thing that had kept me going anymore at this point was that after everything my family loved me and supported me through recovery. They didn't ask anything of me, they let me quit my job and drop out of school so I can just focus on my mental health. They helped me get a therapist and a psychiatrist, and for the first time I felt like it was actually helping me. Because this time I wasn't doing it for myself, I was doing it for them. That kept me on track and focused on getting better. For the next 2-3 years I didn't do much but just ponder my own thoughts, reflect on the mistakes I had made in the past and where I should go from here. I was a college drop out with hardly any work history. But I still had my faculties and I thought if I can at least sustain myself I would have exceeded my own expectations. I applied for any job that would take me, and luckily Amazon was taking any warm body they could get. There was not even an interview process, I just walked in and signed some forms and I was hired a week later. The money was actually quite decent but I didn't care about that. It just felt good to finally not feel completely useless. I came to work on time every day, I never took long breaks, and I always worked hard. This job was my sole purpose, it was all I had. And my god did I hate it.

Standing on your feet for 10 hours a day doing monotonous physical labor every day with a boss that micromanages you and treats you like dirt. It was no way to live and I definitely did not want to do that for the rest of my life. And I didn't want to quit and go back to doing nothing and feeling useless every day again either. This was the motivation I needed to make a career shift to something that I enjoyed and was good at. Since I had spent so much of my childhood and teenage years on a computer I developed a knack for fixing them when they break down. My computers never stayed broken for longer than a day cause I couldn't bear not playing games for that long. This is when I learned about getting IT certifications and changing careers that way. For the first time I was taking my studies seriously as I had a goal in mind and the drive to achieve it. I had taken the A+ exam before and failed as I was very arrogant going in, and didn't bother studying. This time around I studied until I felt ready and it took me about a month for each exam and I passed the first try on both exams. I actually felt like I had earned this certificate, but that wasn't the hard part. The hard part was finding an IT job with no degree and no relevant experience. I was applying for jobs every day with the amount increasing progressively day by day. I got rejection letter after rejection letter and it was only after my 60th application did I get my first interview. Of course I didn't get that job, but it was the next interview that landed me my first IT job as a data center technician. My final count for how many jobs I applied for was ~90 jobs. But seeing where I am today, I can safely say that my efforts were worth it. Not only do I work in a field I enjoy but I have a career path and a future I look forward to. I am living proof that no matter how bleak or hopeless your situation might seem, there is always a way out and I want to help as many people who are in situations like mine find their way out.

> To live is to suffer, to survive is to find meaning in the suffering. If there is a purpose in life at all, there must be a purpose in suffering and in dying. But no man can tell another what this purpose is. Each must find out for himself, and must accept the responsibility that his answer prescribes.

  -Gordon W. Allport