---
title: Head in the Clouds
author:
  name: Hieu Huynh
  link: https://github.com/hhuynh15
date: 2022-03-14 20:10:00 -0700
categories: [Blogging, Personal]
tags: [Blog, Personal, Cloud]
math: true
image: 
  src: /YCF4dh6.png
  width: 700
  height: 393
---

Today I officially signed on to be an AWS cloud apprentice at New Apprenticeship. Never would I have thought that I would be here 2 years ago let alone 6 years ago. 2 years ago I didn't even know that cloud engineering was a job I could do. I just stumbled my way into this job by following my passions. I learned Linux fundamentals basically on my own by spinning up a server at my workplace and hosting game servers off it. I learned docker because I wanted to expand to multiple servers while still controlling each server's resource utilization. Whenever there was something I wanted to achieve but didn't know how to do it, I would just acquire the skill on my own. I self taught myself Python because I wanted to make my own discord bot and Python was the most accessible one to me. I was so involved in Python development that I was asked to become an official plugin developer for an open source discord bot. However I had to turn down the position as I didn't feel like my skills were up to snuff compared to the other developers that were on the team. Looking back I should have taken it and used it as a learning opportunity but my self doubt and anxiety got the best of me. After that I told myself, "I won't let that happen again". Now, I am diving head first into something completely new that I don't fully understand. I'm nervous as hell as to the things that might go wrong but whatever comes my way, I'm going to give it my all and try to overcome it. All these various skills that I have acquired over the years chasing my passion eventually lead me to the cloud.

I see cloud, hybrid cloud, and multi cloud as being the future of how companies build their IT infrastructure. Cloud will only grow more dominant than it already is, and in my opinion it is for good reason. Working in a datacenter has only made me appreciate the efficiency of cloud computing more than ever before. For one, cloud generally has better fault tolerance than your typical IT infrastructure. Building a redundant system can easily double the cost of your infrastructure and it can get very hard to manage when you have twice the amount of hardware to keep track of. With the cloud it is built in with fault domains, if a virtual machine were to fail the other one would be available as software is distributed across both instances so failover is instantaneous. You will rarely have downtime or data loss if your systems are in the cloud. The other big advantage of cloud is that expanding or downsizing your infrastructure is a seamless task. I have personally worked on tickets where a company was downsizing their cabinets and it takes a lot of planning, coordination, and downtime to consolidate hardware. The ticket was two weeks long and the client was charged well over 3k to complete the task. On the cloud all hardware is managed by the service provider and upscaling and downscaling is done near instantaneously. There are many more reasons that I think cloud is better than your typical IT infrastructure but I think these are the biggest. For these reasons, I don't think cloud is going anywhere any time soon. And I'm happy I will soon get to be a part of it.